# selective_fairness
This is an agent based model written in NetLogo 5.3.1 to study how social inequality can arise out of selective fairness.

Abstract: Although fairness is a social norm, inequality pervades our society. The various game theoretic models discussed in Chapter 5 of Alexander provide accounts for how fairness could be desirable. In a nutshell, these models show that for self-interested agents, fair play maximises one’s gains because it’s the highest paying strategy that is compatible with itself. This reasoning underlies Alexander’s models due to the assumption that agents are indiscriminate of their encounters and universally update their strategies by the same algorithm. As a result, the kind of inequalities represented in Alexander’s models are generally due to having sub-regions that lock themselves into a suboptimal polymorphism due to their unfortunate initial conditions. This does happen in the real world. However, more often, inequalities arise due to deliberated shifting of powers, whether it’s political or economic. I argue that when certain agents adopt different strategies per different encounters, as is the case with actual people, fairness primarily persists within the sub-community of these discriminate players. In particular, inequality could arise due to the fact that members of a sub-community play fairly with each other while unfairly with outsiders. This kind of play indeed permeates the real world, in the form of institutions of all sizes such as political parties or corporations. 
